Hello, dear listener, and welcome to Startling Barbara Bain.
The only Space 1999 commentary podcast that's still recovering from our patron saints nurse ratchet impersonation.
I'm Nathan.
I'm Brendan.
I'm James, although probably not the one you were expecting.
And I'm the ostensible threat of the 1996 ultra probe that is still causing discomfiture for Commander Kernig.
All right, so we are watching series one, episode eight, Dragons Domain.
And am I right in thinking that this is a very special episode?
Well, we've got other James.
We have other James, but it's a very special episode, I think, because everyone loves this one.
Is that right?
It's so special.
It was shot the 23rd and intended to be the penultimate episode of the season, but the testament of Arcadia.
And always shown, I mean, you know, as far as the liner notes, but yes, when it was shown in the UK, it was done in this order.
And I'm really glad it's in the middle of the season.
And I think that was more of a US thing because they, you know, in the US they like to bulk the season at intermediate points, and this was seen as the bulk episode, simply because it's such a great traditional Bo Wolf and Grendel, really, isn't it?
George and the Dragon, as they called it in this.
But it was also one of the ones that went through a lot of rights.
And Jerry says it was his script.
Chris Penfold says it was his script.
Actors also say they worked on the script during the development.
And Nick Tate said, actually, it's his because it was originally called Webb, and it was about Alan Carter's history of complete discomfort with his ultra probe of 1996.
And it's really true to the point that when the writers finally got hold of it, Alan just completely gets the Alan Carter short for either getting knee up in the corridor, ball sacked in the cockpit.
I mean, really, he has not the best week.
He does have a very funny line, which I think is quite good, and that makes a change, I think.
I remember this one very well.
James, do you?
It's special for me because it's my remembered childhood trauma.
Okay, it was horrifying.
It was horrifying.
Just the one.
One of his childhood dramas.
The one I'm still in contact with.
What year do you remember this one from?
75?
Around then?
Yes.
When did about 35 something?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
When does it go?
When does it go to sort of midweek afternoons?
When it's you didn't watch it in primetime, did you?
Yeah, we do.
No, I remember.
Seeing this and Blake 7 all at very weird time.
Like seven, I saw very late times of night, which is very scary.
But I don't remember the time.
It's all sort of I repressed it all.
And forgive me because we saw the whole season in 75.
We got it before the UK, recall.
So I think we were the 1st in the world to get it, actually.
Oh, maybe not the US only James here, other James II. other James.
But yeah, we got it very, very early and again, Channel 7 paid a huge amount of money for this.
I think it's because of the Olymp- hang on.
No, 75, 74 was the Olympics, and there was a ratings recovery thing, but it really rode, at least in our country, on the back of Lord Lou Great, and that it was really pushed by Abe Mandel in the US, and Australia really sort of picked up on that and we wanted to be first.
We were kind of at that thing also because it was our 1st year of proper colour broadcasting in 75 So I actually remember this in the Women's Weekly.
And it was in the NS and it was in the Sunday colour supplements, which were, I think, 2 pages of colour back in those days.
But it got full pages. the big thing.
Okay, okay.
See, I remember, I think James and I have the same experience of watching it a bit later than that during school holidays at sort of 2 o'clock in the afternoon.
It was 11 AM in...
Yeah, I say 35.
I remember at four, I mean 45, about 45 years ago.
Yeah, yeah.
Don't say that.
And so I do remember this one, but I don't remember much detail.
Obviously, the monster I remember sort of terrifically well, but I don't remember any of the sort of backstory probing Uranus thing.
I remember Michael Shed's moustache.
Oh, okay.
And his mindfulness.
That's a bum when he turns around on the flight dig.
And the glowing central eye that I'm talking about Grendel now.
And the sound, the foley.
I remember that.
Absolutely incredible.
I remember the ship's graveyard.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Well, we want to talk about that because I am model Fun Boy, so I can tell you what they all are.
Including the continguity era?
Totesies.
Oh, do you mean the dating continuity area?
No, I mean that when they 1st approached the ship's graveyard, you can see the ultra probe there.
No, it's the ultra probe, not the Uranus probe.
Is that me or no?
Okay.
All right.
So in that case, I think we'll get started.
I have a key word.
And that word is punyalo.
And so when I say that word once more, we are going to go in.
All right, punyalo.
And we're off.
Probably.
Yes.
Oh here we go.
All right, so, James, typewriter.
It's a, um, now I've forgotten.
No, it's Giselle 2000.
Is it Giselle 2000.
It's a Triumph Adler, Giselle 2000.
It's fabulous.
Gabrielle 2000.
It's so great. really want one.
I sort of feel that 1999 hasn't aged as well as 2001 in terms of technology predictions.
And here's the eye to I have in a wink.
So that's what they do.
So my memory...
Disco wank.
My memory of this is that it's season two.
And for a long time, I thought it was season two.
And I think part of the reason is there's a fair amount of kagools.
Like, people...
Space Kagouls, people start wearing Kagouls, and of course, there is a prominent Italian in the cast.
And so this was always the deal, though, even in series one, wasn't it?
They were pretty Italians.
Annoying. off the money.
I think they were really well behaved considering, you know, the Landau's response to having handsome Italian leads, not often.
Yeah, yeah.
But, I mean, it's a big, big suck.
Did we record all of our pre panda stuff?
So I don't need to go on about Nick Tate's?
Yes, yes, yes, yeah.
Okay, so hello listening. distracting from the whirling paper clips of death.
But I kind of also like...
It's also a bit Louis Jamison's Moonbase holiday home, isn't it?
Well, I was kind of thinking, well, he is clearly a big game hunter.
He's a big guy, but he is going to die.
So that's fine.
Well, I'm glad he's used the axe on... it's wood, isn't it?
It's actual wood.
It's always stuck on fox too.
It is real wood, Your Honour.
It's an assagai.
Yes.
Dramatic music.
You know, another reason your brain may categorise this in series 2 is, you know, it starts with where 877 days out from Earth.
Yeah, of course, is a series 2 thing.
Yeah, and so's her intro.
It's the 1st time we ever see it.
The moon is fast.
It gets between galaxies very quickly.
So, again, one of the things that I have discovered this time through is just how weird and hostile and empty the universe is.
Yeah, bigness, how irrational and strange it is.
And so I was actually slightly delighted by the preposterous detail that they're now in intergalactic space.
And presumably they'll be back in a galaxy or God knows where or who even cares at this point.
But, you know, those sort of weird planets that all look like sort of various prolapses.
And just how upsettingly strange and weird and off putting everything is.
And I mean, this episode absolutely sells that.
None of it makes any sense.
There's no explanation for any of the things that are going on and it just doesn't matter at all.
Yeah, I must admit, I don't have a reference point for knowing how prolapses differ in appearance.
So I'm just extrapolating. you go.
I, we mentioned before that there was, in offline discussion about the, the sort of that spatial, as you say, it's jarring.
It's not meant to be consistent.
There's sort of like that element of in the shining where space doesn't quite line up.
It's like these things aren't how things actually behave.
It's just hostile unpredictable environment.
Yeah.
I was I was recently talking to a friend about alien Romulus.
And I won't mention any spoilers for that.
But I was talking about, you know, how we've had some good alien sequels and some bad alien sequels, and I think the difference between the good ones and the bad ones is the alien universe is unfeeling, but not necessarily cruel.
Oh, see, I think the alien universe, particularly in the 1st film, is godless.
You know, this is the thing, you know, well, you know what Ridley Scott really liked.
And Brian Johnson, of course, won the Oscar for Alien after designing a lot of what you're seeing on this.
He loved this episode of Space 90.
Ah, wow, okay.
But, you know, the space 1999, very often, the situations they're wandering into, there's, there's not necessarily malice behind what's happening, but it's implied that there might be purpose behind it.
Yeah.
So, you know, space...
Yeah, there are war machines.
Yeah, yeah.
So it's kind of like early space 1999 very much tries to tread this line between, is there purpose in the universe?
Are things happening for a reason?
Is it Margaret Layton's...
That's right.
No acronyms here.
Oh, how about the chess set?
It's really shit, isn't it?
isn't it horrible?
so bad.
I mean, I've come all this way and you've given me a packet of jujubes.
Yeah, but how do you even tell the pieces apart from what it is?
rubbish.
The thing is, though, if you play computer chess on home computers in the early 80s, this is what it looks like. but not colour.
But no, no. no.
Well, one, maybe green.
Although I seem to recall my parents when I, when I was a kid, had an IBM PC and the screen colour was sort of amber.
Yes, that was a thing for a little while.
Gosh, that was gorgeous, wasn't it?
I want to talk about the desk lamps.
Who wants to talk about the furniture?
What about David?
Oh, we didn't talk about the furniture in Cellini's room.
He's a lot stable if I had to live in a room like that.
It's wonderful So the desk lights that you're seeing here, of course, are the Rodolph Bonetto's original, what were they called?
Cerella desk lamps.
And they're actually steel.
Oh, here we go.
Here's the moment.
Here's his first moment.
I sort of feel like there's a...
Maybe the security protocols aren't that great if you can just pick up someone else's com lock.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, it's a bit shite, isn't it?
Well, they don't have they don't have Apple's finger and I think...
But also some lovely Patrick Trout and technology box action happening there.
They do make a joke about his pyjamas, don't they?
Like later on, like, aren't you overreacting?
You get into an eagle in your pyjamas, but no, no, it's all right.
It's only Alan.
I don't know why he has to look up his nose to see if he's conscious.
It's just watching the hairs wafting.
Yes, exactly. method.
He's checking.
He learned it from pertly, pertly. how you inspect someone when they've been knocked unconscious.
Oh, computer can do nothing.
As usual.
Well, maybe it should be able to.
I'm just saying.
Maybe this is why you're not in season two, Kano, spoiler alert.
Did he ask for money?
Also that they're just paying exposure.
Could I have money this season?
And just a little nerdgazm.
It is all made of wood.
The little table and chair dinette set in Cellini's apartment is, of course, because we haven't name checked.
Stapler standoff.
Yes.
Steiner, Paris, uniblock force, eating unit.
I had to get that out.
Okay.
They do look like they're about to fire staples at each other.
Staple as a...
They are.
I used to do great rubber band wars at work too.
God, we were bored.
And he's a lovely hospital desk tea tray.
Helen's comment here.
He talks about Tom...
What's wrong with him and she says, well, he's an individualist.
Yeah, yeah.
That's quite a character flaw or something. what's that She thinks he's a dick.
Individualism equates to mental instability or what does he say?
repressed hysteric, so his uterus is playing.
Yes, his test, Derek, actually.
That's the term.
I mean, he does have...
He's an individualist.
It's a polite way of saying, his quarters are full of fucking axes and spears.
Yeah, he's a nut bag.
We've talked about this.
You know what?
It's a fair point.
They suppressed hysterics.
Pressed hysterics.
Yeah, there's his pyjamas.
There's the pyjamas line.
Bless her.
Yeah, Conig's like, we don't have an axe problem.
We have a mental health problem.
Can we deal with mental health?
No.
Can we take the axes away?
Thoughts and prayers.
Thoughts of prayers.
What the toothbrush?
Yeah, he's not in his right mind.
He was trying to take over that eagle without even bringing his toothbrush.
He's the best.
What he's saying?
Best all round.
He can bowl.
He can bat.
Yeah.
Fans of obscure Australian game shows may like to know that that toothbrush line was, in fact, the inspiration for Tim Ferguson and don't forget your toothbrush.
Ah, there we go.
I've forgotten.
Good show.
I wanted to be honest.
Do you remember?
It's a little boy.
Sorry, just the details, such as the double line of glazing pressure units.
That impressed me as an eight-year-old.
And they get about it when they when they make a hole in it.
When they open the windows when they suck bob out.
That's true the thing.
That's true.
And is Helena saying, I still get to call the shots?
You know, I think Martin's got more frosting than numb.
He does have a lot this week, but he is up against Cellini, who is handsome Italian.
Yes.
With a great accent.
She's great in this.
They really go at it early in this episode, don't they?
No, she really does.
Again, what is his quip?
Why don't you write another letter?
Yeah, right.
Now, for a 2nd I think...
I suspect it's because the post is shit this far.
But then it moves.
No, no, it's the reflection off her zipper on her as well.
But for a 2nd I thought, that's, they didn't fix that from where Bob got sucked out of there in an alternate timeline or whatever.
I always get in trouble with the reflection of zippers.
They've got so much shrift reading back to the press articles at the time.
Look and get back over those again this week.
So much shrift for being wooden and all the jokes about, you know, the puppets are now no strings and all those.
What do you think of the voiceover in this episode?
I love it.
And that's why they used it for season two.
But the point is, that scene, and now, of course, we've got Barry doing everything behind it.
I'm sorry.
It's only in a Grand Garden at this point.
They really powered that scene.
That could have been very overdone and it could have been very underbaked, but it's all that double heart in the eyeball. think it's good.
She nailed it and so did he.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
No, and it gives us something.
Oh, now we're back in time.
Now we're back in the...
And we're wearing fucking kagools.
Says Google.
We're actually, you could buy them and they wear them in Empire Strikes back as well. remember?
Yeah, Space News.
Space news.
Yeah, yeah, rules.
So these you could buy and they're from the US and they've just put the colour stripes and the badge on it, but they are the same out same jackets in Empire Strikes Back just for the fans at home.
And you know what?
Star Trek then totally steals.
We're going back in time, so let's put the regulars in a different division colour.
Yes.
Love that.
Yeah.
And let's match the wallpaper.
Let's leave away today.
Amber.
He's quite good natured to hear about losing the toss.
I actually quite like how it depends on a cross toss as well.
You know, that's actually quite amazing.
Do you're loving the calendar on the back wall with all the cotton reels?
It's a real thing.
I think it ties back to the way he was just defending him.
It's like it shows how much camaraderie and trust he had in him.
Yeah.
1996.
What were we doing then?
Watching Frasier.
Oh, it's Kendall Ozel. watching Paul McGann.
It's Kendall Ozel.
We're watching Paul.
Oh, Susan Jamison.
Hello, darling.
Oh, hooray.
The IMC captain we never had.
Remember?
Hot colony in space.
Oh, really?
Okay.
In a big red leather uniform.
She gets to have a revenge though.
Yes, Mrs. Whipsu.
She gets eaten by... this giant filing captain.
Yes.
So we, the beautiful jeweller and I had a discussion about, you know, why you needed someone with dietary and psychological needs, and we decided that that was just code, for she was mum and she made the tea.
Yes, that's what she does.
She brings a tray in to Chilini.
I just assumed it was the lack of lack of gravity and people get bound in space.
So she's bought lots of dried spinach wafers.
Right, okay.
Okay.
She needed a PhD to bring a train.
Just to talk about the absolute episode. 2nd though.
One of the things I do like about this episode is the mod, the way they're reading the pilot module again, and that...
They've actually been in the plot later on, but... that's a big thing that about space 1999 that I've always appreciated, that...
The continuity of the design.
Real, yeah, and it a lot of them actually makes sense.
I mean, I love I love the eagle design. you know, the whole Thunderbird 2ness of it.
They actually exploit that in this episode. just works really well.
The size of the sets too.
Now, the ISS we just saw was designed by Brian Johnson.
It's owned by Greg Jine.
Greg Jean, who did Dark Star and a lot of other space stuff.
So it's still there.
It's still, he still owns it.
And yes, you're right. the modularity, although it doesn't have any solar stacks.
No, which means that Wirins can't hide.
But I mean, the Labra Kellerman.
About to have a hair washed and a manicure.
This is very reminiscent of the discovery.
Well, yeah, yeah, it is.
Yes.
But it's a 35 unit.
Well, and the music.
Now, well, can we talk about the music?
So it's not Albononi's Adancio?
Well, it was supposed to be, you know, it was that bloke, wasn't?
Yeah, yeah.
Italian guy.
Adagio in G minor for strings and organs.
So it was meant to be discovered by Remo Giotto said he discovered it and then, you know, it was unpublished that he discovered in 1945 and the remains of the Saxon State Library in Dresden.
So how's that for politics?
And you know, and that's why he just wanted to put a lot of weight.
But of course he voted himself.
And that came out after he died.
But was it a series of Benson and Hedges ants in the UK that, you know, someone would have a bad time and then the music would start and then someone would offer them a cigarette.
That was all I could think of.
It's a very beautiful plant.
It's also Wendy Craig and Butterflies, it's her thing.
Rhea's theme in butterflies, which we all remember, because she's lovely.
And there's your space prolaps.
Yeah, they are very beautiful.
Well, I think that but they're sort of upsettingly weird and organic.
Like they don't look like anything.
Trip bit of trivia.
That's the laser disk version of Tommy.
Oh, Michael Sheard.
Admiral.
Kendall Ozel.
Yes.
Can I mention the organist?
Well, they're clutching at each other's headrists.
Well, he's about to check the space, Gregory. so be quick.
Look at that.
Yeah, so the conductors are out in Lombard, but no, I did want to mention the, it's the grand organ of the church of Saint Roche in Paris.
I mean, it's a really grand recording that we get to enjoy here.
I'm just trying to remember who it was. 1966 recording.
Oh, yes, Marie Madeleine du Rflé.
And if Simon Moore was here, he'd go, oh, yes.
No, mate, here we go.
Shall we boys?
Space deal.
Who wants to know about the spaceships?
They do look like they're about to attack Star One. don't they It's kind of like your junk drawer.
As it comes in and they do a long shot of it.
You'll see the body of the ultra probe without the units. without the head on it. it's already there.
It may not have been the 1st probe thing.
Might be a time thing.
Could be a time thing, but this could be earlier.
Could be, or later.
One of those.
Apparently got some, oh, not, no, earlier Anderson models that have been rejuked.
So we don't have any, you know, it doesn't go the other way.
So we don't get any pert we models.
Do you think all 3 of them are having... with Tony?
They've already got it.
Yeah, there it is.
They've already got an ultra pro. one of them need another one.
But don't you think?
It's 8 months.
No way, they're not all boning Tony.
Look at him.
He's got the energy.
So did we spot?
Just to calm everyone.
Sorry.
I was just going to say Shiard's moustache, but go on.
Got you boys.
All right, now we're back on the spaceships.
Oh, there's Margaret Layton.
Really?
Okay.
There's the big shuttle.
So we've also got the alpha childship.
Okay.
So that's the one that your mate, Julian Glover, in the in the in the rap effect, in the in the cling wrap effect.
Oh, the Sidon ship from Voyages Return, which we love.
Oh, okay.
Space Kenny Everett.
Yes.
Oh, that one's there's a lot of probie things there.
Oh, who else is in this?
Oh, the Ethereanship from Collision Course we've mentioned.
Yes.
She was actually an Etherean.
Oh, the gorgeous last enemy ship, which is my favourite one.
I think there's some universal law saying that all docking tubes must be compatible.
There is.
It's like USBC.
It's like the pan spermia of technology.
Yeah.
Well, it's beautiful, isn't it?
Cross-pollinating to Blake 7 for a moment.
The way that docking tubes are done in Blake 7, and we only see them 2 or 3 times, is that it is just sort of a wide opening that can latch onto anything smaller than itself. matron. you know, so...
Yes, that's supposed to be smaller than each other, though.
No, no.
But the thing is, it only needs to be...
Now that is terrifying.
Yeah.
And, like, part of the thing about this is by any kind of objective standard, the monster is shit.
I, look, and I have to say, even watching this again now, I, I actually was surprised at, because I was going into it thinking, yeah, this was like 50, 45 years ago.
I actually, it's 51 years ago. still had the trauma.
Like, it's still...
It's terrifying.
It's fucking terrifying.
The sound is the direction...
It's the Foley, too.
Michael Sheard.
And now we've gone to now we've gone to frosting, but it has a fantastical effect.
I think too, it's just like the organic residue under its mouth that just makes it look a bit blur.
Although even at the time, I was bothered by how flat its tongue is.
Yes.
I wanted undulation.
It very much is the freezer drawer.
It is.
Actually, I haven't cleaned my fridge.
Thank you for arriving it's been ages.
So this is actually the 1st episode of Space 1999 I ever saw.
No.
And it put me off watching for years because it was so scary.
It's amazing.
I, you know, it's quite positively that was my experience as well, which is why I remember...
This is good.
This is the bit that I remember.
As a child?
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, the smoking corpse.
Like we, we had, um, we had toasty, um, um, what's he say?
No, no, toasty, um, toasty, um, toasty, uh, Brian Blessed the other way.
We did, didn't we?
But this is much grosser than that, I think.
I did have to say, while I was reliving 45 years of trauma, the beautiful Julian was making quips and inappropriate while I was trying to deal with nearly 5 decades of repressed animal.
She is doing great possessed, actually.
But that was shot in reverse.
Okay.
So she was actually climbed out of it and the actors were all having a bit of a giggle because it was a bit...
Just being sucked in thing?
Into the drawer.
Yeah.
Into that.
I mean, you keep saying that.
It just trivialises the trauma.
I, you know what?
But look at it.
It's very slick.
I still even now I'm watching it and going, oh.
But, I mean, it is the sort of monster that can very conveniently lure you, you know, force you to go into it because it can't go anywhere.
Yeah, it's organic.
I find the organic monsters like really.
Yeah, yeah, we've got the tender visceral horror.
He's still doing his Mikado.
I'll come when I've finished my Mercano.
He's trying to reverse the graphitica normaliser.
Oh, is he okay?
A bit pert we took there.
What's going on here?
pertly was still the doctor.
Yes, yes.
So it is looking good.
I love those beams.
You know what?
I think...
And it would have been difficult to do at the time.
I think I think that mouth should have been in the centre.
That's a great show.
Barbara Kellerman's a lovely actress.
Honestly.
Oh, that is a bit, Mr. Snuffle up.
You know, it's also cleaned that up.
And he's brought an axe.
Of course he has.
It's Tony.
You know, it's also the space blomantes from the planet Cyther in Monty Python science fiction sketch.
Oh really?
It's not Riley.
It's a real space football module for the blood sizer.
I did I did wonder, now that he's ejected himself.
Yes.
All the food is on the bit that he left behind.
He's lucky that he had that cup of tea.
Oh, he does have easy access to the Zed control and 6 control as well.
And I was going to say, Andy's Vivaldi CD, but we've already termined us, not for valid.
False Albononi.
It's that bloke.
But, um, Clayton...
This reminds me there's games on the ZX 81 where you had to land your space probe.
I have an issue.
James.
Kept over the issue.
How's your issue?
How come if that is a modified eagle nose cone that the bridge looks completely different and much wider?
Oh, because it's it's a, it's a, it's a, it's a ship designed for a longer mission, so you put stuff in there.
Sure, it's the same width as the equal cockpit.
Yes, it fits in.
Actually, I could be wrong because that little red panel next to him, they do have those sorts of... alone in that module for 6 months.
Wow, I thought.
They can no longer fuck like rabbits.
No.
That's it.
His whole harem has been...
He's grown to be years.
He's grown a beard and his jarmies don't look too filthy, do they?
I think they would have.
Oh, look, we're getting some moose knuckle, though.
Yeah, but oh, yeah, cool, we are.
He's got a calculator so we can write space boobies.
And there's one seat.
God, that's a beautiful shot.
It's just rock hard and it's developed sentience.
Charming.
Oh, see, he's got a survival pack with some humbugs.
Yes, but he's sick of it.
Yes, no, I...
Oh, yes.
Give me pass.
It's death.
It's death by space.
Death post space makeup.
No, we haven't got Mission of the Dariens yet.
It's that very weird thing, isn't it, where they can't make the model go in front of stars.
It's all in one camera.
Yeah, yeah.
Although I thought that looked great.
I don't need to notice.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
It was on a black patch.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yep, there's the press on beard.
Yes, yeah.
Well, that's what happens.
You go space mad, space madness, and you start sticking beards on. is Victor always wearing a parka indoors?
I don't know.
Space Kagool. his biker phase.
Because it's the past.
Yeah, yeah, that's right.
Someone had a word with him in 1998 and said, can you cut it out with a fucking Kagool?
Victor.
This might be heresy, but Helen is a bit of a shitty doctor.
No.
Do you mean as a psych?
Well, she also seems to have a psych as well, yes.
What was she, um...
I wondered what did she make you?
Because he's a dick.
She mostly makeup.
Although, it's Halloween, so I can look at this.
This outfit is so great.
Or is it early career?
Hang on.
Come on, boys.
Who is she doing?
Dr. Mangler?
I mean, she is doing Martha Stewart, but she's also doing early career, Hillary Clinton.
Oh yes.
Lock her up.
But, you know, I have also...
It's a bit butch, isn't it?
She looks, she hates him.
Look at it.
Seething with content.
And it's actually it's actually a bit Diana Prince Wren uniform too, isn't it?
Isn't he gorgeous?
He's so sweet.
I hate your gap.
Have you ever noticed in the 70s?
Whenever we have a flashback, the men's hair is more plastered down and the women's hair is bigger to make them younger.
That's that's how you do it.
You're a bag of nuts. what she's saying.
So what's the theory?
The theory is that a lover's tiff, he killed the 3 of them and then...
Oh, no, I thought it was just that he made a mistake and opened the air.
He ejected him.
In a sort of post-coital hay.
But she's certainly giving him the entire Arian blonde death wish.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
She is a Nazi doctor in this scene, isn't she?
I thought that she, she keeps fiddling with her, like she's got this large chunky jewellery and I'm expecting her to be communicating with the common dance, you know, in her Hugo boss.
Yeah, yeah.
Those are giant earrings.
Helena doesn't wear those. is the worst hair big ear.
I love it in any show.
It's just awful.
Yeah, see the sex line.
I thought the mention...
Life was fairly daring.
Look, he's about to say that Shi can do amazing things with that moustache.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Well that's exactly true.
You realise this is the only earth scene we get in the entire 1st series.
Ah, do we go back to anything in the 2nd series?
Journey to where, but it's not really the same, but there's actually a green living thing.
Yes, yes, yeah.
Plants.
The only, it's the only one.
Amazing ring.
Well, they do visit the commissioner's office as well.
Well, but in this, but this is the only episode.
Oh, yeah.
That's not actually his office, but we'll get to that when we...
That's Em's office..
It's not.
Well, it's actually only...
She's going to speak into that ring, isn't she?
Like someone's, she thinks she's Barbara Felden.
She wishes she was Barbara Feldon.
She wishes.
But it is Martha Stewart here.
No, and again, lock her up.
She's going to press one of his mood boxes.
Look at all those things above his head also.
Also, she's thinking window stabbing.
When do I stab him?
when do I stand?
She let him say...
Here we go.
That's right. stab you for being Italian.
So moody.
John calm down.
I mean, whatever your name is.
You know, strategically, it would have just been better if the nurse had done that from the other side, but Bab's like, no, no, no, I do.
I'm doing the stabbing.
I went to Madam school.
And you don't do that with psych patients as a whole, and you come on.
You're trying to...
You're trying to pick the lock on the black box?
Victor is recharging his oscillator.
Yeah, he's wondering why they didn't make the whole ultropo pro battle.
Is it making a potato battery?
Ah, okay.
Yeah.
Why isn't this USBC?
damn it.
They've had mini cable.
Do you think they roll or die?
He put it in 3 times.
It still hasn't gone in.
Do you think they roll a dice episode to work out?
Who's going to be the rational one?
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
And he's going to be the irrational one in this episode.
Or a dice.
One of those.
But I think Helena enjoyed being the Nurse Ratchet.
The other viewer, I'm signedly making a certain gesture at...
James, what did Julia say about Babs's moment there in the...
Did she have anything to say?
About the stabbing?
Yeah, well, about...
Well, yeah, you're giving away my secret and she said she was such a shitty doctor. it's unbelievable Is she a psychologist?
Was she even startled?
And that's my question too.
Was she?
Victor doesn't seem to have lost any hair between 1996 and 1999.
Or game fair enough. or gained any?
Well, that's something, yeah.
On the topic of like who gets to be the sensible one each week.
Is it ever Prentice Hancock?
No.
He's barely in it this week.
He's always plotting the overthrow of management.
Yes, he is.
That's true.
I think I think I have one of those.
It's probably in Prentice's Hancock.
It's like I never want to be the sensible one.
I want to be the one who says, there's rain on the moon now.
I'm going to make Sandra my wife.
It was as soon as I saw that door.
I didn't mean to steal your thunder.
Ah, so here we are.
It was only in the man from the Golden Gun.
So it was a standing set at MGM, but for some reason, they only use the bloody set once in the bond rooms, it looks like all the others.
I'd call this meeting of the space parker society to order.
I love...
Look at how relaxed victories.
Why is Victor sitting like that?
Is this full side on the leado day?
He's a scientist.
He's the outlier.
And also, I just, I just want to, I just want to reiterate, Victor Fox.
Yeah, he does.
Not as much as Tony, though.
Not as much as Tony.
No.
Well, yeah, he's the middle one.
He's the medium.
Do you all recognise Dr. Fanning?
No.
No, no, so old bloke, as in M for this one.
Yeah, it's a campus M we've ever had, and that's saying something.
But old bloke here, he was, I think Douglas Wilmate.
Yeah, Douglas Wilma ends up playing Dr. Fanning in Octopus.
Ah, when he says to Wodge about his encrusted Faberge.
Oh, right, okay.
Yes.
I do like the space desk.
We may not get another long shot. it.
My friend Robert had one of those chairs in his flat until recently, like one of the chairs that, yes, please.
Victor is lounging insouciantly on.
So it's still a very sort of 60s design.
I just love the fact this is 1996.
You know, I was still doing the job that I have now in 1996.
I had not finished my PhD in 99.
Oh, there you were.
You were a mere myst...
Me 7 years into it.
Right, okay.
I was in year seven.
There you go.
And of course, you know, we were all rejoicing. at Paul McGann in the telly movie show.
We were.
Ah, they probably just watched it.
That's why they're also crossed, I think.
I don't remember.
Toadie missed it.
He was so busy having sex with Michael Sheat and those 2 ladies that he didn't even remember that it was on.
Do you know that Michael Shared and Susan Jemison never got to see Paul McGann kissed Ashbrook?
Oh, dear.
Tony's she must have actually managed to stab him off camera because he is very relaxed in this scene.
He doesn't seem to be sort of particularly agitated like he wants in bed.
Oh, yeah.
Well, Quailude, some of that's more of a 70s thing, the 1996.
Do you think they still had them?
Oh, it was retro.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, fair enough.
So I don't quite know what's happening here.
So he's doing the political dirty on them and saying, you know, doesn't matter whether I believe you or not, but I'm going to save my own arse and...
Yes, okay.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, it's still so weird that they're in the Kagool.
And it's not that cold.
But that's why they're spacemen and not civilians.
Oh, see, that's it.
This is some guy who can't even afford like lapel.
I'm just now making a decision.
I think Sylvia had something to do with that because it's actually a really sweet nod to the suits they wore in UFO.
Oh, okay.
Yeah, okay.
And interestingly enough, when Babylon 5 do suits, they dispense.
Yeah, I know.
They dispense with lapels.
But what they have is sort of around the collar, they have a sort of rectangle that reaches around just to mimic the top.
The top collar of a super. with sort of an epaulette badge.
So he's doing his space shafting.
He's still got he's still got his name tag badge on, and he's in his own office.
It's a bit showy, isn't it?
Yeah, a different secretary.
Mrs. Money Paddy knows who.
But he's not a guest.
Why is he...
So when is 90 when is UFO set?
1980?
But also in 84, there's a mention of some episodes.
So it's mentioned scanners a lot of years.
Okay.
So, yeah.
I think this is a little harsh here.
Because Victor has agreed with him, basically, against the other two.
And Victor gets grounded.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
See, I'm going to basically ground the 2 of you and I'm going to ground Victor as well.
Yeah, it doesn't last for very long.
I mean, they're back on board Alpha by the time.
I mean, he's fucking commanding Alpha in like 3D months or something, 3 years time.
Because someone made a joke about his chin and he never gets any attention at Victor's soirees.
Victor gently takes John's arm and pats him on the back. side.
Is that the moon going away?
Yeah, yes.
Oh yes, this size disappeared, et cetera, et cetera.
It's actually a little bit unusual to have this sort of backstory stuff, isn't it?
You know?
I quite like it, though. really like it.
And yeah, I can see what you were saying earlier, Richard, that this was originally envisioned as being one of the regulars, but no, we don't do that.
We don't give the regulars backstory.
Well, we don't kill them off as well.
That's true.
They just disappear between seasons.
Actually, yeah, that's the difference between this and Star Trek.
You know, this would have been a Geordie episode, except Geordie wouldn't have been killed.
Yes, yeah, yeah.
Although, you know, sometimes maybe he deserves...
Well, it is it is our secret.
Split in the battery.
Where?
Oh, up the top.
Oh, yeah.
He's been in with the axe again.
It's a space flower.
Yes, it is a space flower.
So this is him apologising like a man.
I shall give you a thing and you mentioned this again.
Yeah that's right.
I'm not going to say I was a massive dick and you were a really terrible person, but I've decided that I still want us to be friends with benefits and I'm not going to bring it up again.
Yeah.
Is that?
Oh, like, it's such a being chill.
She's chill.
Look at that.
She cracked a smile where?
She's got the com lock to the drugs cabinet.
Oh, he does say, I'm sorry I chewed your head off.
He does use the word sorry because this is 1999 where men are enlightened and Gamer Gate never happened.
Okay, well, is it going to have happened?
Yeah, well, that's what leads to what we see in Journey to where?
Oh okay.
I would have thought because the moon went away and all the tides came up and drowned everyone.
Yeah, no, it's Game of Gate.
Okay.
No, don't drink it, Helena.
It's a flower.
Oh, okay, right.
Can I speak?
don't know.
Can you?
Yeah, just like, I'm not helping, but I'm hilarious.
I like all the colour coordinated medicines.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
It's a cocktail cabinet.
In other words.
I'll say, wait, wait.
We're in the present.
Right.
Yeah.
Okay.
The leaves have changed. back in normal colours now.
Back in normal colours and it's 202 2002.
Yeah.
Konig's hair has a bit more volume.
Helena has a bit less.
I'm trying to do the maths.
Yeah, yeah, the look on your face.
Roughly.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
She said 800 and something.
So you're saying 2002.
It becoming three.
Also, hasn't Tony been a great benefit to the moon base up to this point?
Well, he's a little bit...
We did find these Italians.
Yeah, no, but what about the other guy?
The guy who accidentally killed that whole bunch of people and an entire planet and was just sort of there in engineering, not doing anything very interesting?
Yeah.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yes.
He was foreign as well.
Force of like, you know, I see a patent.
I think so.
I mean, you know, the thing is, Tony's been perfectly great until...
He started attacking more things with an axe.
Yeah.
Oh, Helen stabbed him in the neck.
Oh, here's Paul.
Here's Paul I get paid this week, Paul.
And then there's Paul.
It's just a picture of Paul.
That was great, thanks.
Yeah, see you next week.
I like that he comes in here and then turns around and looks at the screen.
Hang on.
So medical is, what, 3 feet away from me.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
No, yeah.
So Tanya is in this week.
It's the space dildo graveyard again.
Oh my god. there's actually like the proper space shuttle there.
No, that's that's the that's collision course.
Oh, right.
That's the Athenian shuttle.
Oh, they're all Martin Bauer built the ships, by the way, to Brian Johnson's designer.
There are 2 sizes for this episode of the Ultra Probes.
And so, and so how does this get to be here?
Space reasons.
And I think that's great.
Like, that's what I like.
It's just sort of weird.
And in a way, it's here because it's narratively right, and it's here because, you know, Tony has to go and get eaten by the theme.
Yeah, by the thing.
Yeah, yeah.
The being type thing.
Yeah.
So it needs to be here.
It's here, because what about chat?
But it is that weird jarring thing that makes no sense. adds to.
Yeah, yeah, it's odd.
Strange.
What's the weird jarring thing?
What Nathan just said.
Oh, the narrative. train's located, like, mysterious, 1000000s of mysterious.
It was cute.
Oh, Sandra's finally here.
Hello, darling.
Gorgeous.
Where's Tanya, though?
No, she's she's reheated. was promised Tanya.
Oh, look, there's a hairdryer.
No, that's the Sidonian.
Oh, it's actually Kenny Everett chip.
They're talking about the coincidence here and they're coming to the conclusion that, well, whatever, whatever reason we're here for. can't ignore it.
Which is, yeah, fair enough. doesn't she look like Barbara Bark on the right.
There's Tanya.
Tanya.
No, it's not.
It's very small...
No, it's time to be behind, yeah.
Tony behind, which is a full name.
I look, I found this episode still quite compelling.
It's gorgeous.
Did anyone hear the latest billionaires in space and why no one cares about space anymore because it's just man children with money going up there?
But you know the Branson thing when he took William Shatner up there as a publicity thing?
What did Shatner say?
Did you use it?
Oh my god.
It's, I saw death.
It's just death.
There's nothing, and it goes forever, and it's nothing, and all you feel is your own death.
He's not quite old.
He also, it's Shatner.
He's always been like that.
I thought, oh, what a what a waiter.
It's just like deflate. 1000000s of cubic parsex, space that have never heard of me.
Helen did actually look startled then.
Really?
And not rigid like everyone else with a red.
Tony looks like he's flirting with victims.
She sees this thing that overturns all of her prejudices.
Oh my god, I might be wrong.
He might be wrong.
Oh, look at that.
She does look very concerned.
I think she's amazing.
What?
Great boob action.
She is doing sort of tennis, though, isn't she?.
Now John's talking.
Now, Tony's talking.
She's like, what do you mean after we've definitely encountered 5 space monsters that he could have engaged.
Are the purple arms?
Are the purple arms equivalent to the red shirt?
Yes Yes.
I want to ask why the tunics are cut just so slightly above the Plumsole line, but they could have easily been extended to be discreet, but they're not.
They've got great bums, don't they?
They're crotch relief tops.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Everybody said that.
Oh, my God.
Look at Victor.
Hello, Victor. another inch and a half and we would have, but no.
Well, that's precisely the reason, I think.
I think Victor had them all shortened.
And well, I think I think the non-dives wardrobe.
Yeah.
I think the non-digetic answer is Sylvia.
Sorry about that.
Sylvia was not backward about coming forward.
Again, Alan.
Then look, look.
There's Tony's boys.
But once possible.
So Nick Tate again gets...
But he does get a comedy line about how he keeps being hit in the hair, which I think is kind of fun.
You're Australian, you won't feel it.
Which, you know, if it had happened 7 times in the 1st episode, this is so good.
The Thunderbird 2.
Yes.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And you always wanted to see it as well?
It didn't happen enough.
Not enough.
Yeah, he's gone.
I have a 3rd option between, you know, putting up with the kids arguing in the car or turn around and I'll take this car right home.
I'll just check us in the back seat.
Have we all forgotten from breakaway that you can remote control?
Paul's got that little Google stick in his...
Ah, yes, everyone, including the bride.
But somehow we've just...
At the beginning, they said it what didn't work.
And then they said it did work.
They had no remote control of the ship, but then when John wanted to get on board, he said, cancel the override, and then he couldn't take off and then he could have to come back out of the ship again.
I think they're just making it up. infuriating, isn't it?
How do you get that to match up?
Pod 4?
That's great, isn't it?
I've always thought that that's, that's a huge, brilliant aspect to the design.
Yeah, oh, yeah, wonderful.
Well, this and the Babylon 5 star fury designs are 2 things that the NASA Jet Propulsion laboratory sort of contacted the showmakers about and said, hey, that's a really interesting idea.
And then did the Babylon 5 people say, actually, sorry guys, it's just a cartoon.
Well, the Babylon 5 people actually then worked with JPL for the rest of their spaceship designs.
But there is a...
That's what I got against me.
There you go.
There is like a um, Exo space station vehicle designed after the staff fury now.
Now, this fat guy is in it a fair bit, isn't he?
Is he fat?
Excuse me, he said, Eagle 2 docked on Eagle one, but is Eagle 2 the frame an Eagle won the frame or is Eagle one?
Their flight, their flight signifies.
So it doesn't matter what ship it is.
It's just whatever flight concordion shipping.
So what's him now?
What's he now?
I think he's still legal ones.
But he just missed out the word pod.
Like Eagle 2, Eagle 2 on Eagle one pod.
And what about when the head comes off?
Oh, sorry.
It's launch pads.
Ah, it's launch pads.
So yeah, it makes sense.
Yeah.
Okay.
And there's 4 main launch pads.
Yeah.
What are the security guys doing?
I can see the security guys. gosh we've never talked about that before.
Oh, what, security guys in there?
bulging significance in this story.
That guy's giving really good frown acting in the corner. all he's done all day.
It's more than he's being paid for.
He's going above and beyond.
I've seen this a lot.
And he's a stunt guy.
We've talked about him.
He does a lot of jumping about fit and handsome.
And a bit like Eric Idol.
Sort of if he were fit and tired.
I don't think we talk about the roof of the passenger module enough.
Oh, well, off you go. run money.
It's up and down. does Paul go and do his his special beauty shots against a background because he's not sitting in main mission when he does.
No, no, no.
He just goes off to the side.
He says, sorry, I've got...
Does he send them from the dunny, don't he?
He's actually standing over by the door right now.
He's always answering when he's indisposed on his com lock.
I also love that I think all of Main Mission, all of the designs were all based on Babs's hair.
Oh, look that.
Nice Tupperware collection.
Not anymore.
They've gone bankrupt.
Yes, I saw that.
Yeah, it's very sad.
You know why?
All the lids disappeared from their warehouse.
I've got most of them in one of my drawers for no reason.
Well, that's the Colbert made a joke this week, which was it's all because they rejected my idea of selling Tupperware, just lids.
And it's like, no, actually, that's a brilliant idea.
Just a box of assorted.
How many how many eagle bodies in other parts do they lose over the episodes?
This is the point, isn't it?
They've lost another one and they've got remotes for that as well.
People.
Do they have a 3D printer?
They do actually, there was a talk.
That's a great model. isn't that beautiful?
And it's timber.
It's actually timber and bits of plastic and metal.
He's still acting.
He's looking off into the distance.
They are, they have got, there is one mentioned in season two.
They've got a refinery on the moon.
Okay.
And they do actually have an eagle manufacturing plant.
But at the same time, what?
Yeah, yeah.
Well, we're saying Voyager losing shuttles over the years.
Yeah.
I think that's why the proto star has a 3D printer that prints shuttles.
Yes.
Yeah.
Does it?
Yeah, that's cute.
It's adorable He's got his axe.
Oh, he's a fucking maniac.
Well, he does take the rope to lash himself sometimes.
You need boys like that, though.
There's always space spiders.
Yeah, what?
Yeah, they're always sp spiders.
Well, actually, that's like in the face of the sirens.
He lashes himself to the mask.
NASA identified tiny creatures that somehow got on the ships back in on Skylab in 75.
They found little tiny.
So yeah, they are there.
Are they space?
Tiny creatures?
space spiders.
No, they actually find tiny, tiny little, you know, because they just get in on your hair and stuff.
Not saying they are, but like little tardy grades. very hard.
Well, actual insects.
Florida.
So, you know, you have to walk in or with one of them.
She's pregnant.
Oh, isn't that great?
It is paper clips, isn't it?
It really is.
It's swirling, it's that horrible 90s windows.
I think you want to write a letter.
What was her name again?
Death by clipping.
Clippy.
No.
Oh, that's where the thank you.
I was going to say, I still have the reaction.
That's where the lower decks.
Badgie comes from.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yes, yes, yes.
Yes, that's exactly where it comes from.
I see you want to start a holodeck program.
You want to die?
Oopsie.
I watched that last night.
Yeah.
The one disadvantage of Chris Chipnell leaving Doctor Who is that we will never get Moopsie versus Patink.
I hope Russell is wise enough to bring back the patine because it is one of the good things about the chipmill era.
Oh, how beautiful is this?
Yeah, yeah, you're right.
It is.
It's Odysseus lashing himself to the mast.
Yes.
So yeah, and there's a like nobility to what he's doing, I think.
Yeah, he's just a, he likes hitting things with an axe.
It's kind of like, I know.
If only I'd had the chance to have a proper fucking go at this thing with an axe.
I used to see Gilgamesh last week because the opera is one and I couldn't go.
But, oh, hello.
Bit of thumb, actually.
But is there every culture as Joseph Campbell wrote?
Per tweeting the autons.
Yeah, exactly.
Does every culture have this story?
Well, it's like, it's kind of very nothing.
It is a person fights a monster.
Do you know what I mean?
But it is a thing that we all have.
There are always people fighting monsters, I guess.
I mean, there's that end, the final scene, which is very much the, we can't really think of a lesson for this week.
And so it's kind of like Tony would be glad to be dead and being thought of as St.
George versus the dragon and you kind of think.
Well, I think he would have liked to be alive so that he could spend more quality time in his quarters stroking his axe collection.
Beautiful Julius Edge.
I think he'd be rather more glad to be alive.
That's right.
But yeah, lots of Sriracha here, long before it becomes popular.
He's sort of stabbing it above the eye.
I think, um, Helen's, sorry, you...
No, no, no.
I'm done.
No, no, ANC.
Oh, I was just saying, Helen is very used to following orders here.
He tells her to stay behind.
She just walks straight in. fucking exhaust him and walks straight after him.
But like he's saying, you should stay behind because you're a woman?
Like that, that's how you read it. maybe you'd better stay here.
I'm going.
She looks shocked.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, no, fuck that.
I want to watch this asshole get eaten by the monster.
It's like, here she comes in and she's got to look startled here because she's got to be thinking, well, she was wrong, John.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And you know, I'm not, ugh, yuck.
I'm not by any means an authority on horror films at this time, but we did have a lot of UK Italian co-production horror films.
Oh, okay. in the 70s.
And I'm wondering if, because this is, I think the most horrific episode of Space 1999.
And I'm including melted Brian Blessedon.
Bringers of wonder.
Intentionally.
Here we go.
Yeah, that's just good.
Man and their axes.
Why doesn't he get eaten?
Because he stabs it in the glowy thing.
Okay, but why didn't why didn't stupid Tony think?
Because he didn't quite manage to break it.
See, now he's broken the clothing.
And the fluid has drained.
Aqueous humour is pouring out.
They like the vitreous.
Vitreous humour.
All the aqueous humour has flown out.
They had to destroy the Death Star and kill the emperor at the same time.
She's pretty startled there now.
I don't think is she startled yet?
Yeah, I suppose she's sort of startled.
Ugh, yuck.
Who's cleaning that up?
Well, none of them, because they all just walk off.
Staff. that's it.
Tanya and Tanya.
Tanya's doing it. with a toothbrush.
See?
They will just turn around and leave.
Yep, okay.
Well that was gross.
Thank God he's dead though.
He was a prig.
Nothing more to be done here.
Nope.
No, it's that little guy, he does the trick of getting his face on camera.
You know, he looks back for a second.
It's just, it's me.
I'm the best extra in this episode.
Oh, God, here's hell on the back.
That's known as the blue dragon ship, but I'm trying to remember what other episode it's from.
Oh okay.
But the model's called the Blue Dragon ship.
Fair enough.
The, the, the head bit of it looks like it becomes the table's ship.
Yeah.
I, and I remember just being weirded out, buddy, elongated docking base. has got these big, you know, big arms on it for no, like, like a gigantor for no reason.
Ping, ping, ping, ping, ping, ping, ping.
I actually, I made a mistake on the 2nd word and I need to retype the end.
Typewriters are stupid, aren't they?
What were people thinking?
Yeah, they didn't have, they didn't have any tipex on Moonbase Alpha.
Yeah, they would have been up to Windows 98 by the time the earth.
That's why everything blew up.
Okay, yeah, that's right.
At least they missed Windows MA, right?
exactly yes.
That is what I was going to say.
Yeah, happy to know.
Yeah, put new life into our old myth now that he's dead.
I think that Tony would be happy to be alive.
That's right.
Yeah, if Tony and his harem had all survived the dragons.
Yep.
Well, they're being nasty in heaven right now, I guess.
Michael Shiard was called Darwinking.
Yes.
I caught him doing that too.
I reported it to HR.
But they were too busy dealing with the Victor complaints, so they never got around.
They would have been so busy.
He would have been in it out of their office.
I'd never noticed before.
Victor does not just loll in the commissioner's chair.
He pretty much date rapes it.
I told you, Victor Fox.
No, he really does.
Well, the beautiful Julia thought that was reasonably good and held together.
I think it's great.
I think it's really tight.
And he said, when this came on, who does the vacuuming in that place?
They have robots.
They've got like discovery.
Yeah.
Which never go wrong.
Sandra's team.
That's what she said.
She thought it was Sandra.
No, Sandra does.
No, that's it with a toothbrush. interesting.
Oh, God.
She was never married to Tom Cruise.
Why would she have to do that?
I'm thinking of the Katie Holmes look that later.
Well, I thought with the apart from the usual sort of scientific inconsistency in things, which, as you say, adds adds and air, a weirdness here to the episode.
I was still, I was quite impressed by it all.
I found it still found it very absorbing.
It was a very, still had a psychological horror thriller type thing for me.
I really enjoyed it.
I love, this is so stupid, but I just love how the big kind of octopus thing appears just in a doorway. you know what I mean?
Like it's not, it's not even a big slurping monster, and it's obviously just a, uh, you know, budgetary thing, all they can afford is a big puppet that they stick on the wall and then the, you know, the freezer drawer underneath that people get sucked into.
I also like that because it's not really there.
No, exactly.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
And there's a weirdness and a sort of height.
Does anyone remember being 3 and terrified of their wardrobes?
Yeah, I remember.
What you're saying in just this, they're not really there.
I remember as a child not entirely thinking that the monster was physical.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, I think that they just believed in it.
It rolls back in mixes. and then suddenly that.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
Again, there's a kind of refusal to be consistent or sensible or to explain anything properly and I absolutely love it.
I think it's the best thing about Space 1999 and this run through, and like we're, what, a 3rd of the way into the 1st season.
It's just that kind of off putting weird emptiness of the universe and it's... that I like, I think.
Yeah.
Do we know what the Foley was for the, um, what did you say, the, the, the spades that were tossed in everybody when the monster appears?
I don't know.
It was a gorgeous.
And not at all like BBC radio phonics.
It has a very different tincture.
It's a different...
It's even at a different pitch.
It's just that weird electronic screaming.
Like it's so off-putting.
It's wonderful Honestly, like Debbie Watling's back in the room.
That hype, but there definitely is many levels of it. and beautifully done.
So Fic Elms was doing scores, but as I said, we'll talk about another episode, but the incidental music is not Barry Gray.
He only did some of the major themes.
So Vic Elms was doing a lot of the others.
But I'd like to know who was doing the Foley.
We'll have to look that up and talk about it next year.
I should say next month.
All right.
Well, I think in that case we might wind it up.
Do we have to plug anything?
We have recent episodes out on the 3 hand game for the decapod.
We do.
And coming soon, death at bargain prices.
Ooh.
And over at BJBJ Game Show, we have our most recent episode, the Talos Principle, which is a very interesting game where you are a robot in a garden and you don't know what's going on.
So naturally you have to find a kill god.
Yep.
And then coming up, we have lost in play where you don't have to kill God, but it was still a lot of fun.
Brilliant.
Well, Flight 3 Entirety continues its coverage of series 10 of Doctor Who, and this week, David Suchet will be joining us, not really, but we'll be talking about him in knock knock.
Find out who he is doing, what with with the tuning fork.
Exactly All right.
Well, in that case, all that remains is for me to say.
Until next time, remember that being mythically resonant is a much worse outcome than being alive.
Thank you very much for listening and good night.
Good night.
Good then.
Down.
The Earth's moon was blown out of orbit.
Is that a song?
I have started running lyrics for season jokes.
Oh my god.
Where's stop?